Feature/add apipoc migration guide (#84)
ONSdigital/dp-developer-site: static/retirement/v0api/index.md

---
title: Retirement of v0 API
---

## Background

In line with our [approach to the retirement of API endpoints](../), it has been decided that ONS will retire our 'v0 API' due to the following reasons:

- out of date technology
- built as a proof of concept
- strategic technology direction is elsewhere
- cost of upkeep is too high with similar services available

This application provides the following API endpoints:

- `/dataset`
- `/dataset/{dataset_id}`
- `/dataset/{dataset_id}/timeseries`
- `/dataset/{dataset_id}/timeseries/{timeseries_id}`
- `/dataset/{dataset_id}/timeseries/{timeseries_id}/data`
- `/timeseries`
- `/timeseries/{timeseries_id}/dataset`
- `/search`

These are for the following domains:

- `api.beta.ons.gov.uk`
- `api.ons.gov.uk`

This is not the case for our v1 beta API can be accessed at:

- `api.beta.ons.gov.uk/v1`

Which has, for example, endpoints for:

- `/search`
- `/datasets`

You can also browse the [full Search API Swagger specification](../../search/search/).

## Migration guide

> Below you can find detailed ways that you can still get the same data from the ONS using our latest services which will benefit from continued enhancement and investment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you can find detailed ways to access the same data from the ONS using our latest services which will benefit from continued enhancement and investment.
```

| New     | `https://api.beta.ons.gov.uk/v1/search?content_type=timeseries&q={timeseries_id}` |

`/dataset/{dataset_id}/timeseries/{timeseries_id}` is a subset of what is retrieved via `/dataset/{dataset_id}/timeseries/{timeseries_id}/data`.

After getting the response from our search service, you can get the `uri` parameter of the `item` that matches your `timeseries_id` to it's `cdid`. Using that `uri` you can then submit that to our data endpoint, for example:

`https://api.beta.ons.gov.uk/v1/data?uri=/economy/nationalaccounts/uksectoraccounts/timeseries/mm23/capstk`

These uris are currently evergreen and so won't change between editions.

### /timeseries

| Version | URI                                                              |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Old     | `{domain}/timeseries`                                            |
| New     | `https://api.beta.ons.gov.uk/v1/search?&content_type=timeseries` |

Parameters:

| Old parameter | New parameter |
|---------------|---------------|
| start         | offset        |
| limit         | limit         |

> You will need to add a new parameter to the request to just return the `dataset` content type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to add a new parameter to the request to just return the `timeseries` content type:
```

> `content_type=dataset`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`content_type=timeseries`
```

See the [search response mapping](#search-response-mapping) for the overall response mapping and [search item data mapping](#search-item-data-mapping) for the mappings for individual items.

> ### /timeseries/{timeseries\_id}

Reviewer: is the "\" supposed to be in there?

Author: where?

Reviewer: Please ignore

Reviewer 2: https://github.github.com/gfm/#backslash-escapes 
I believe so - to avoid the underscore being treated as markdown

Author: ironically github showed this just as "" to me. :D

| Version | URI                                           |
|---------|-----------------------------------------------|

> | Old     | `{domain}/timeseries/{timeseries_id}` |

Reviewer 2: indentation

`https://api.beta.ons.gov.uk/v1/data?uri=/economy/nationalaccounts/uksectoraccounts/timeseries/mm23/capstk`

These uris are currently evergreen and so won't change between releases.

### /timeseries/{timeseries\_id}/dataset

| Version | URI                                           |
|---------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Old     | `{domain}/timeseries/{timeseries_id}/dataset` |
| New     | Deprecated                                    |

This endpoint currently returns a 404 for all `timeseries_id` provided and so can already be considered deprecated.

To get a result to what might be expected for this endpoint, you can go to:

`https://api.beta.ons.gov.uk/v1/search?q={timeseries_id}&content_type=timeseries`

See the [search response mapping](#search-response-mapping) for the overall response mapping and [search item data mapping](#search-item-data-mapping) for the mappings for individual items.

### /search

| Version | URI                                                                     |
|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Old     | `https://api.beta.ons.gov.uk/v1/search?content_type=timeseries,dataset` |

Reviewer 2: this looks like a New endpoint to me - or I'm rather confused - needs some explanation, please

> | New     | `https://api.beta.ons.gov.uk/v1/search?&content_type=timeseries,dataset`                                                              |

Reviewer 2: whitespace alignment

Parameters:

| Old parameter | New parameter |
|---------------|---------------|
| start         | offset        |
| limit         | limit         |
| q             | q             |

Add new parameters:

> `content_type=timeseries,dataset`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `content_type` can include `dataset`,`timeseries`, or other relevant types.
```

thinking in case we have more than those in the future.

Author: the point is to replicate the existing functionality - the existing one pre-filters for timeseries and dataset
